README.md, before:

![Hugo Logo](assets/kj_shugo-logo.png)

# kj_sh604's Hugo Theme (kj_shugo)

a VERY minimal Hugo theme that I use on my [blog](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/articles/) and [scripts/tools](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/scripts-and-tools/) sites.

## features:
* ![rss logo](assets/rss.webp) generates an rss feed with a `Makefile` (`public/rss.xml`)
* dead simple stylesheet (`static/style.css`)
* responsive web design for mobile and desktop (see screenshots)
* dynamic navigation with `topnav` and `nextprev` (good for blogs)
* decent amount of code and configuration comments to make it as self-documenting as possible.
* dark mode and light mode (based on site visitors' system settings)
    * this is not done with CSS; rather, it is achieved with a simple `<meta>` tag:
        * `<meta name="color-scheme" content="dark light">`

## screenshots

**deskop site**

![scrot on desktop](assets/desktop-scrot.png)

***with example content*** *([aedrielkylejavier.me/scripts-and-tools](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/scripts-and-tools/))*

![scrot with content](assets/example_content-scrot.png)

***example blog post*** *([aedrielkylejavier.me/articles/2023-01-06_blog-redesign](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/articles/2023-01-06_blog-redesign/))*

![scrot of example blogpost](assets/blog-example-scrot.png)

**mobile site (responsive)**

![scrot on mobile](assets/mobile-scrot.png)

## usage

### theme installation

```bash
hugo new site [YOUR SITE NAME]
cd [YOUR SITE NAME]
git clone https://github.com/kj-sh604/kj_shugo.git themes/kj_shugo
# copy css to the parent directory
cp themes/kj_shugo/static/style.css static/
# be careful with the next command (removes the .git directory in themes/kj_shugo)
rm -rf themes/kj_shugo/.git
```

you can now declare `theme = kj_shugo` in your `hugo.toml`/`config.toml` file to use the theme.

### generate rss feed

* run the following in the hugo working directory (where `Makefile` is located)
```bash
make
```
⚠ **Disclaimer:** this Makefile originally used `sed -i`, which works as expected on GNU/Linux. However, I have not been able to test its behaviour on macOS or the BSDs. I have rewritten it to avoid using any OS-specific arguments (`-i` in this case), but it remains untested at this time. Therefore, please exercise caution when running `make` on these operating systems.

## additional links and info

* [Hugo's Documentation Site](https://gohugo.io/documentation/).
* [Hugo's Templates Documentation](https://gohugo.io/templates/).
* See the theme in action on my:
    * [Blog Site](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/articles/)
    * [Scripts & Tools Site](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/scripts-and-tools/)
    * ["No Javascript" Version of my Website](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/noscript/)

Commit message:

refactor: add instructions to delete `assets/`

README.md, after:

![Hugo Logo](assets/kj_shugo-logo.png)

# kj_sh604's Hugo Theme (kj_shugo)

a VERY minimal Hugo theme that I use on my [blog](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/articles/) and [scripts/tools](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/scripts-and-tools/) sites.

## features:
* ![rss logo](assets/rss.webp) generates an rss feed with a `Makefile` (`public/rss.xml`)
* dead simple stylesheet (`static/style.css`)
* responsive web design for mobile and desktop (see screenshots)
* dynamic navigation with `topnav` and `nextprev` (good for blogs)
* decent amount of code and configuration comments to make it as self-documenting as possible.
* dark mode and light mode (based on site visitors' system settings)
    * this is not done with CSS; rather, it is achieved with a simple `<meta>` tag:
        * `<meta name="color-scheme" content="dark light">`

## screenshots

**deskop site**

![scrot on desktop](assets/desktop-scrot.png)

***with example content*** *([aedrielkylejavier.me/scripts-and-tools](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/scripts-and-tools/))*

![scrot with content](assets/example_content-scrot.png)

***example blog post*** *([aedrielkylejavier.me/articles/2023-01-06_blog-redesign](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/articles/2023-01-06_blog-redesign/))*

![scrot of example blogpost](assets/blog-example-scrot.png)

**mobile site (responsive)**

![scrot on mobile](assets/mobile-scrot.png)

## usage

### theme installation

```bash
hugo new site [YOUR SITE NAME]
cd [YOUR SITE NAME]
git clone https://github.com/kj-sh604/kj_shugo.git themes/kj_shugo
# copy css to the parent directory
cp themes/kj_shugo/static/style.css static/
# be careful with the next command (removes the .git directory in themes/kj_shugo)
rm -rf themes/kj_shugo/.git
# remove assets/ directory (not necessary for the theme)
rm -r themes/kj_shugo/assets
```

you can now declare `theme = kj_shugo` in your `hugo.toml`/`config.toml` file to use the theme.

### generate rss feed

* run the following in the hugo working directory (where `Makefile` is located)
```bash
make
```
⚠ **Disclaimer:** this Makefile originally used `sed -i`, which works as expected on GNU/Linux. However, I have not been able to test its behaviour on macOS or the BSDs. I have rewritten it to avoid using any OS-specific arguments (`-i` in this case), but it remains untested at this time. Therefore, please exercise caution when running `make` on these operating systems.

## additional links and info

* [Hugo's Documentation Site](https://gohugo.io/documentation/).
* [Hugo's Templates Documentation](https://gohugo.io/templates/).
* See the theme in action on my:
    * [Blog Site](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/articles/)
    * [Scripts & Tools Site](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/scripts-and-tools/)
    * ["No Javascript" Version of my Website](https://aedrielkylejavier.me/noscript/)
